[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello, everyone.
Welcome to "The Quest
for the Cures Continues."
My name is Ty Bollinger, and
I'm going to be your host.
I'm so glad that
you've tuned in tonight
because this program,
this docuseries,
for the next 11 days is for you.
Whether you're just
trying to prevent cancer,
whether you have a loved
one or a child with cancer,
or whether you've been
personally diagnosed
with cancer, you deserve to
know all of your options.
If you remember
back in the spring,
we aired "The Quest
for the Cures"
in which I traveled
across the country
interviewing doctors and
researchers and cancer patients
to find out exactly what
they are doing to treat
their cancer, naturally.
Because of your support,
we've continued our journey
and traveled to Houston, Frisco,
LA, Washington, DC, Detroit,
all across the USA and
interviewed another 22 doctors
and scientists.
We now have 51 of the
most renowned doctors,
scientists, and survivors
who are breaking
their code of
silence and will be
sharing with you,
these next 11 days,
about natural
treatments for cancer.
And we've learned
more information
about these natural treatments
that mitigate cancer.
According to the World
Health Organization,
one in two men and
one in three women
alive today will face
a cancer diagnosis.
I lost my entire
family to cancer.
In 1996, my father,
Graham Bollinger,
was diagnosed with
stomach cancer.
He was 52 years old, and he died
in 25 days from the surgery.
After that, my grandfather,
my uncle, my cousin,
my grandmother, another
grandfather, and then
eventually my mother,
in 2004, died of cancer.
Now, I'm doing what I'm
doing because of them.
My passion is to share
this information with you
so that you can be able to make
an informed decision if you
face that cancer diagnosis.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The time came where I
had to leave my family,
and it was such a blessing
because they completely
supported me in this mission.
It wasn't my mission,
it was our mission.
It was my wife's, it
was my children's.
We all shared this mission.
And, so, while it was painful
to be separated from them,
it was something that
was necessary in order
to accomplish this goal.
And so it was a
bittersweet time when
I had to say goodbye
to my family,
but we knew that our goal, that
our purpose was much greater
than this.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
When my dad was
diagnosed with cancer,
I just didn't understand
how a man that
was seemingly healthy at 52
years old could die in 25 days
after the surgery.
I didn't understand how
modern medicine could still
be operating in what
seemed like the Dark Ages.
>> Yes, they are Dark Ages.
In medicine, we are beginning
to have Dark Ages unless people
will take some action.
>> Why is it that we're
living in the Dark Ages?
Could it be because of
medical school curriculum?
I traveled down the
road to Seguin, Texas,
to talk to my college
roommate, Dr. Irvin Sahni.
>> So talk about med school.
When you went through
medical school,
how much nutritional
training did you get?
>> Pretty much none.
[TAPE REWIND NOISE]
Pretty much none.
>> Pretty much none?
How can it be that
doctors receive
almost no education on
nutrition and diet while
in medical school?
Could Dr. Sahni be the
only one with this story?
>> In medical school, we have
like 30 minutes of nutrition
where they tell us-- don't
give sugar to the diabetic,
don't give salt to the
hypertensive patient,
and give a lot of fiber to
those that are constipated.
And that's it.
>> That's what they taught you?
>> So doctors don't know
anything about nutrition.
>> No one's interested in
talking to you about losing
weight.
No one's interested in talking
to you about quitting smoking.
We do that a little bit.
And there's actually codes
for quitting smoking.
There's some little
fine nuances there.
But the bottom line is,
there's no real incentive
to promote true health,
and there is an incentive
to write lots of
prescription medications
by the way the
system is designed.
>> A common theme
that I'm hearing--
medical doctors, while
brilliant people,
are just not taught about
nutrition and overall health
when they're in medical school.
They're basically taught to
prescribe a pill for every ill.
Why is this so?
In order to get the
answer to that question,
we're going to have to go
back in time, about 100 years,
for a history lesson.
You see, if we're going to
change where we're going,
we need to know
where we've been.
And that's why history
is so important.
Because, as the old saying goes,
those who don't know history
are doomed to repeat it.
I had to talk to
Dr. Robert Scott
Bell who's a homeopathic
doctor and also a historian.
It was time to begin
our history lesson.
I saw you recently
on "Fox News."
You talked about a monopoly
of modern medicine.
And you went into the
history of modern medicine.
>> Yeah.
>> If you could, for
the viewers here,
go into a brief five-minute
history of modern medicine.
How did we get to
where we are today?
>> Yeah, this is an
interesting thing,
the history that is not taught.
And part of my interest
in this subject,
not only because
of my own health
challenges, but once
I uncovered the fact
that I was lied to about
my health and my body
and health and
medicine in general,
I began to question just about
everything that I was taught.
And as I uncovered these
different areas of inquiry,
I found out indeed there
is an official story
about these things,
including the official story
of modern medicine.
We're raised as if
it's always been here,
it's always been this
way, and the only doctors
you could consult
are medical doctors
that prescribe patent medicines
approved by the Federal Food
and Drug Administration--
that are often
called the Fear and Death
Administration-- because
of the promotion of products
that are, in fact, the leading
cause of death.
Not the third, or
second, but the first,
in fact, when you start
taking it all into account.
So looking back at the
history, I became intrigued
as to how did we get here?
How did we get here?
And that opened up
a huge can of worms.
Now, as a homeopath,
eventually I became,
I learned about many
things in history
that we were not taught.
Even, including the fact
that in the Civil War,
the war between the states--
some describe it as the War
of Northern Aggression,
depending on your historical
perspective--
you would go, even today, you
would go to a Civil War Museum
in the south, and
it is fascinating
that you will find
in the medical field
kits, the little kits that
they have, first aid kits,
they all had homeopathic
medicine in there.
I was steeped in the tradition,
growing up a lot of my years
in the south in the Civil
War, never once did we ever
acknowledge that
there was anything
like that in these kits,
much less herbal medicine.
And so there was a whole
history that was hidden from me.
Now, eventually I was
introduced to Harris Coulter.
He wrote a series of books
called "Divided Legacy."
I mean, these are books
you could work out with.
You could become
big like you, Ty.
And it's just
incredible the history
that was hidden from us about
the schism between what we call
homeopathic and
naturopathic thought
forms versus allopathic
thought forms,
where they poison the body using
mercury and different things.
And that's where Dr.
Samuel Hahnemann, who
was a physician in his
day in the late 18th
and early 19th
century, determined
that the medicine that he
was giving his patients
was more harmful
than the disease.
And he couldn't stomach
that, and that's
where he was motivated to
develop a system that became--
well, a broad-based
worldwide system
called homeopathy, utilizing
small quantities or amounts
of naturally
occurring substances
from the mineral, animal,
and plant kingdoms.
And, in this way,
there was a growth
around the world out of Germany
of this new form of medicine.
Now, eventually,
there was a schism
because there was an
emerging field of what
we call patent petrochemical
medicines based
on the Rockefeller-type oil
monopoly that had already
established in the energy
sector that was growing.
They started finding out,
through organic chemistry,
that they can alter
these oil-based molecules
into all kinds of things.
And they developed
these patented drugs,
or drug molecules.
>> Dr. Bell talked about
pharmaceutical drugs
and the fact that doctors lean
heavily towards prescribing
drugs.
Why is this?
I wanted to go get the
opinion of another well-known
researcher, so I traveled
out to California
to speak to a prominent
historian, G. Edward Griffin,
and get his take on the
history of modern medicine
and the American
Medical Association.
First of all, you
mentioned the fact
that we've got the
pharmaceutical industry,
we've got an industry
driven by money.
And we've got doctors that
are really smart people today,
brilliant medical doctors.
They're using treatments that
really don't seem to work
as well as some of
these natural things.
Why is it?
Can you go back into the history
of the Medical Association,
the American Medical
Association, AMA,
and maybe take us back 100
years and stairstep people
to current day and
explain why that is.
Because I've heard you talk
about this in the past,
and your explanation
is fascinating.
I want the listeners to
be able to hear this.
>> Well, thank you for that.
It is a fascinating story.
It's an important story.
And I suppose we don't have
time to go into all of it,
but maybe the best way here
is to kind of back into it
to start with where we
are and then go back
and see how we got there.
Where we are today is that,
just as you described,
these very smart doctors--
let's face it, there is a
very selective process there.
You just don't get
into med school
unless you've got a pretty good
brain on top of your shoulders
there.
So it's the cream of the crop.
The best students go into these
schools, these medical schools,
but they're not taught
anything about natural cures.
They're taught only about drugs,
primarily, and drug reactions
and the chemistry of this
and the chemistry of that.
And they have to become
really pharmacists, in a way.
They have to become chemists
before they can even
make it through pre-med.
And so that's not necessarily
bad, but it is a bias.
And I have come to
know a lot of doctors
in the last couple of
decades since we've
been working in this
field, many doctors who
came from that
layer of education
and who gradually and
sometimes very painfully
had to break away from that
and go back and re-examine some
of these fundamental issues.
And many of them have
made the transition
and they speak quite
openly about it now.
For instance, they will say,
when I went to medical school,
we never learned
anything about vitamins,
except we had maybe two
hours of instruction
on the structures of vitamins
and minerals and so forth.
Two hours compared to
hundreds and hundreds
of hours about pharmacies
and chemical reactions
and so forth.
And I remember, there
was one doctor who said,
you know, my wife knows
more about nutrition
than I did when I
came out of school.
And that is not
surprising when you
realize-- now we start
to go backward in time,
how did that happen?
The fact that these great
medical teaching universities
and teaching
centers are so great
is because they've had a
lot of money given to them.
Where did the money come from?
Now we're on the trail.
You know the old
saying, follow the money
and usually that will
take you right to it.
Well, if you follow the money,
you'll find out that most of it
came from the
pharmaceutical industry.
The pharmaceutical
industry knows
that if they give large
grants to these universities,
they have a double benefit.
First of all, they
have the appearance
of being philanthropists.
They're doing good
things, and that's always
good for public relations.
I'm not saying that they're
not doing good things.
They probably think they are.
But, anyway, that's
one advantage
to giving tax-exempt
or tax-free deductible
donations to universities.
But the other advantage
is far more important.
Because once you have
financed a research project,
you now have a first
right to whatever
comes out of that research.
And, consequently, you
can determine in what
areas the research will go.
I can assure you that if I'm
a big pharmaceutical company
and I give a $20 million
grant to a research group,
I'm not going to be
very happy if they start
to research whether or
not dandelions can be
used in the control of cancer.
I want to make sure they're
going to research a drug
that I am working on in
the laboratories right now.
That's where I want
the research to go.
So they realize that they can
take their own research budget
and transfer it to a university,
or some research laboratory,
and get a tax deduction
for it, knowing full well
that if that's what
they're researching,
that's what the
data is going to be.
So I don't need
to go any further.
You can understand.
When the money is coming
from a source, which
has a vested interest
in the outcome,
now what's going to
happen is the outcome
is going to be what the donor
wants it to be, generally.
So this is the problem.
And that goes back
even further in time
to the turn of the last
century when the Rockefeller
Group and the Carnegie Group
actually came together,
and they decided that they
would reform medical education
in America.
>> This sounded like
an altruistic plan,
to reform medical
school education.
But could there be a
more insidious purpose
behind the whole thing?
>> At the time of the late
1800s, the early 1990s,
the 20th century, medical
schools taught a lot
of different things.
There were homeopathic
medical schools,
there were naturopathic
schools, there
were eclectic herbal-type
medicine schools,
and so it was all there.
There was not one way.
Then what happened was that
the Rockefeller and Carnegie
Foundations were interested
in establishing the one way.
How would they do that?
Well, they would get a hold
of the education system
and create a medical monopoly
by basically eliminating
all competition to
patent petrochemical
medical education.
That's the Flexner Report
of 1910, it became known.
Abraham and Simon Flexner
were hired to do this.
It was a preordained
commission report.
>> Not surprisingly, the basis
of the report was that it was
far too easy to start
a medical school,
and that most schools were
not teaching sound medicine.
Let me translate this for you.
These natural health
colleges were not
pushing enough chemical
drugs manufactured by who?
Carnegie and Rockefeller.
The AMA, who were evaluating
the various medical colleges,
made it their job to target and
shut down the larger respected
homeopathic colleges.
Carnegie and Rockefeller
began to immediately shower
hundreds of millions of dollars
on these medical schools
that were teaching
drug-intensive medicine.
>> Oh, by the way, when
they donated the money,
the donors would say, well, now
we've given you a lot of money,
and we know you're going to
do the right thing with it,
but would you object if we
had someone from our staff
appointed to your board of
directors just to make sure
that our, just to see how
our money is being spent?
Well, that was really a
condition of getting the money,
so you know the university
said, well, that would be fine.
Anybody that you would
suggest would be,
I'm sure, more than adequate.
So they began to load up
the boards of directors
of these teaching centers
with people who literally were
on the payroll of the donors.
So once that was in
place, the curriculum
of the universities,
the teaching centers,
swung completely
in the direction
of pharmaceutical drugs.
And it has remained
that way ever since.
>> Predictably, those schools
that had the financing,
churned out the better doctors.
Oh, wait a minute.
Or should I say, the
more recognized doctors.
In return for the
financing, the schools
were required to continue
teaching course material that
was exclusively drug-oriented
with no emphasis
on natural medicine.
By 1925, over 10,000 herbalists
were out of business.
By 1940, over
1,500 chiropractors
would be prosecuted for
practicing quackery.
The 22 homeopathic
medical schools
that flourished in the 1900s
dwindled down to just two
by 1923.
By 1950, all the schools
teaching homeopathy
were closed.
In the end, if a
physician did not
graduate from a
Flexner-approved medical school
and receive an MD
degree, then he or she
could not find a job anywhere.
This is why, today, MDs
are so heavily biased
towards synthetic drug
therapy and know little
about nutrition, if anything.
>> Now, this whole medical
field has been skewed
in the direction of
pharmaceutical drugs which can
be patented and produce great
profits for the producers.
And then the next step is
that means that anything
coming from nature is excluded.
And that's where we
think, some of us think,
that most of the promised
lies and these very
complex substances found in
herbs and plants and trees
and things like that,
seeds, some of us
feel that it was probably
meant to be that way.
And so you come out of
all of this analysis
and all of this history
with the realization
that the medical
profession is really
like a lapdog of the
pharmaceutical industry.
And most of the doctors have
no idea that that's the case.
They don't understand
this history.
>> Wow, what an
awesome history lesson.
Now we're beginning to
connect the dots, aren't we,
about modern medicine?
It's a business.
Listen to what Dr. Patrick
Quillin has to say.
>> We have to admit that health
care is a business in America.
And while we would all
hope that all hospitals
and all clinicians
are working feverishly
to get the patient
well, in fact,
they're a vested interest in
this business of health care.
It's a $2.7 trillion a year
medical industrial complex
we have in America.
That's one out of seven
health care dollars are spent.
And one might argue
that a lot of that
has nothing to do with
health or care or prevention.
That much of it is symptom
management using drugs
and surgery to manage symptoms.
A patient comes in with a
list of problems and symptoms
and pain.
The doctor has seven minutes
to review the symptoms
and prescribe a drug and
move on to the next patient.
>> OK, well here's a pill
for your blood pressure,
and here's a pill
for your cholesterol,
and here here's a pill
for your back pain.
And I'll see you in
a month, and we'll
see if you're
maintaining your disease.
>> Mm.
>> And that's what doctors do.
They maintain a
person's illness.
They're not making them better.
I mean, what are you doing?
That is not OK.
You're supposed to create
optimal health in people.
That's your job.
Doctor means to teach.
Why aren't you
teaching your patients
how to turn their life around?
>> So one other thing I
would like to say is that,
even with our Hippocratic Oath,
which most physicians have
never read, the first thing
it says-- first do no harm.
Right?
And we have to always
go back in saying, well,
are we doing harm, number one?
Number two, is it
also says, just
further down in the
Hippocratic Oath is that--
I will not give a
poison, a deadly poison.
And most of the drugs
that we give, particularly
in oncological care,
has a black box warning,
which means that more people
often end up in the black box
from taking it.
So you can take this
sort of treatment
and you might get
immediate results,
but you also can
have another cancer
or have a severe reaction or
have a life threatening illness
from that treatment.
So just from that in
itself, almost everything
that we do in oncology,
I go back to my oath
and say, well, I
look at everything.
Even if it's herb, I
still challenge it.
I go, is this going
to cause harm or not?
And if it does, then we have
to look at other options
available.
>> When we graduate
from medical school,
we take the Hippocratic Oath,
which says in part-- above all,
do no harm.
And I can tell you, a lot
of conventional therapies
are harmful and
toxic to the body,
and they don't prolong life or
improve the quality of life.
So I'm not quite sure how we've
gotten stuck into this rat
hole, but I think we've
gotten stuck into it from,
as you mentioned, what I've
written about that cancer
industrial complex.
It's set up to feed itself
with more and more money
than it needs.
>> Dr. Brownstein mentioned
the cancer industrial complex.
He also mentioned that
conventional therapies
are more harmful to the
body than they are helpful.
Could this be?
Could it possibly be so?
What were cancer
rates 100 years ago?
Do you have any idea?
I wanted to talk to Burton
Goldberg, also known
as The Voice of
Alternative Medicine,
who was featured in Suzanne
Summers' book "Knockout."
>> When my daddy
was born in 1900,
one in 33 Americans had cancer
of any kind, shape, or form.
When I was born in 1926,
cancer was the tenth cause
of death in children.
Today, it's the first cause
of death, before accidents.
>> Mm.
>> What's going on?
There's a Holocaust.
It's not a question
of will I have cancer,
it's a question of when.
>> Mm.
>> And the oncologists are
keeping their mouths shut.
They use the chemo,
they use the radiation,
and radiation causes cancer.
Mammograms cause
cancer, we know that.
Medical research and
medical journals prove it,
and yet they still do it.
Whereas, thermography
and ultrasound
can be very beneficial
without the violent side
effects of annual mammograms.
And squeezing the breast.
Guess what happens if
there's a tumor there?
You're squeezing it
through the body.
It's insanity.
>> They spread it.
>> So the medical
profession, in my opinion,
is as corrupt as any
third-world nation.
And this country is allowing it.
And the reason
it's allowing it is
because subsequent to the
Roosevelt administration,
the agencies that were
designed to protect humanity
are protecting the
industries they're
supposed to protect us from.
>> Wow, did you hear that last
statement from Burton Goldberg?
The agencies that are supposed
to be protecting humanity
are now protecting
the industries
that they should be
protecting us from?
What about the FDA?
Are they a member of that group
that Burton's talking about?
I mean, isn't the FDA supposed
to protect us from food
and drugs that are tainted?
I traveled to Houston, Texas, to
talk to Dr. Stanislaw Burzynski
who's been heavily persecuted
by the Texas Medical
Board and the FDA.
In this next clip, he talks
about how they retroactively
changed the law to entrap
him to make it appear that he
was actually breaking the law.
When in reality, the law wasn't
even in place at the time.
>> They went after us, OK?
They began to harass
us, obviously.
And they wanted
to get rid of us.
Because, obviously,
after they found
that we have
something which works,
it became a serious
threat too big pharma.
Absolutely, they were
clients of the big pharma.
Why they would
introduce a law which
would say this is only big
pharmaceutical companies
with unlimited resources
is allowed to do it.
Obviously, it shows
whom they serve.
They don't serve
the American people.
They serve big pharma.
Perhaps some investigative
reporter can really deal with
them and prove their corruption
and clear this up because some
things cannot exist.
They are suffocating
research and they are working
against medical researchers.
Because of them, many
people are dying.
And these are the
guys who really
should be the guardians of
what is good in medicine.
So I would call it
the Sovietization
of the United States.
So they borrowed the
idea from Comrade Stalin
how to really restrict
freedom of the people.
>> The Sovietization
of the United States?
Spoken by a man who immigrated
from a communist country?
I mean, the FDA should be
protecting what's good,
I agree with Dr. Burzynski,
but are they really?
In September, 2014, I was
privileged to attend the Sacred
Fire of Liberty Gala
in Washington, DC,
and I met up with Jonathan
Emord, who's an attorney.
He's known as the
FDA Dragon Slayer,
and I got his opinion on
this very important topic.
Now, this was an
impromptu interview.
The sound's not
really all that great.
There was a band playing
in the background,
so we've closed
captioned it for you.
I recently interviewed Dr.
Stanislaw Burzynski in Houston.
He talked about the way that he
has been attacked by the FDA.
Why is it that the
FDA goes after people
that are using natural
treatments for cancer,
but they openly admit
on their own website
that their approved drugs
kill 100,000 people a year?
What's the disconnect?
>> Well, there's nothing
more disgusting, frankly,
but certainly a gross abuse
of individual liberty to have
the government stand in
the way of your access,
when you're dying, to a
experimental treatment that
could save your life.
It really is amazing
to me that in the land
that was supposed to be
dedicated first and foremost
to individual liberty,
that you could
have the government, our own,
standing in the way of people
who desperately need an
alternative to failed
conventional treatments.
And that's what our
government does.
>> Yeah.
>> It's a travesty.
And it's really, when you
think of the number of people
who have died or have suffered
immeasurably because of it, you
want to hold those
responsible to account,
and yet they're protected
by sovereign immunity
from being prosecuted,
despite the fact that they are
very directly
responsible for taking
the lives of these people,
by denying them the freedom
to choose an alternative
that works for them.
>> Denying the people the right
to choose a treatment that
works for them.
This shouldn't be happening
in America today, but it is.
Right down the
road from my house
is a food scientist
named Mike Adams.
He's also known as
The Health Ranger.
Let's see what he has to say
about the topic of censorship
and the FDA's official
position on supplements.
>> There is a system of
censorship of nutritional
knowledge.
There is a system that's
trying to extinguish
indigenous knowledge
of anti-cancer herbs
and medicines,
foods and nutrition.
And the predominant messages
that we are told in society
today is that foods
cannot be medicine,
that's what they claim.
>> Exactly.
>> That there's no such
thing as medicinal herbs.
The FDA's official
position is that there's
no such thing as a
dietary supplement that
has any effect on preventing
or treating disease.
Their position is that you
are not a complete human
being unless you have
interventionist chemical
medicine or vaccines.
>> Right.
>> You must be injected, you
must be dosed with medications
to be a complete human being.
That message is the antithesis
of the natural world.
It is the antithesis
of natural living
and holistic medicine,
holistic healing.
We, Ty, we are spontaneous
self-healing beings
that are programmed,
from that day we're born,
to heal ourselves if we give
our bodies the right nutrients
and don't poison ourselves
with dangerous toxins.
Most of the so-called
success that they
would claim in
radiotherapy treatments,
or chemotherapy treatments,
is based on shrinking a tumor.
Well, but most of these tumors
have cancerous stem cells.
So you shrink the other
cells in the tumor,
you physically reduce
the size of the tumor.
This is a symptomatic
difference.
It doesn't kill
the stem cells that
are going to grow
back and spread
the cancer throughout the body.
You haven't addressed
the systemic problem.
And what you've
even done is you've
weakened the immune
system's ability
to deal with other cancers.
>> Right.
>> Chemotherapy also
damages the brain.
It causes chemo brain.
It's a common term.
Every oncologist knows
this is the case.
It damages the kidneys.
It damages the liver.
So what you're doing
is, with chemotherapy,
you are creating systemic
damage to the body's ability
to heal itself and
to remove toxins.
This is why cancer
treatments cause
cancer, which feeds
into the profit
cycle of the cancer industry,
which is a for-profit industry.
The cancer industry
is exploding.
>> Well, the first thing I would
say is follow the money, right?
With any kind of
investigative journalism
they would say the first
thing is to follow the money.
And so you have to
look at, what is
the biggest industry right now?
It's the cancer care industry.
So when the average
one in two men and one
in three women, in their
lifetime, in the US
now will have cancer,
it's an epidemic.
So you can watch
television tonight,
and you can see a commercial
saying, go to the Caribbean
and then go on a
nice cruise, or go
to some resort with your child.
And the next
following commercial
will be go to this cancer
hospital for your treatment.
And 20 years ago, that would
be absurd, almost shocking
or taboo, to talk about
cancer on television.
And now we're offering it as,
oh, well, if you get something,
you can go to this
place versus that place.
So there's something
that's gone askew.
And, now, since cancer
is so prevalent,
it becomes a common aspect
where people think, well,
when I get it, I can
just go to this place
and check in for a while.
But, unfortunately, most
people don't check out, right?
And so we have to look at, why
is this occurring so commonly,
and why, in the
rest of the world,
it's occurring a
lot less frequently?
>> Big pharma, the
Flexner Report, FDA raids,
censorship of knowledge.
We're starting to get the
picture that not everything is
as it appears today.
But let's take a
step back, and let's
begin to ask the question--
What is cancer.
Now, if you ask
the common person
on the street what
is cancer, they'd
probably say it's a tumor.
But is it really?
So I hit the road for
Amarillo, Texas, to talk to Dr.
Roby Mitchell.
Then I went to Atlanta
to interview Dr.
Vronique Desaulniers.
And then to New York City to
speak with Dr. Linda Isaacs.
And then, finally,
to Los Angeles
to speak to G.
Edward Griffin again.
I wanted to ask them
all the same question--
What is cancer?
>> So, cancer, when we
look at it deductively--
and, of course, the conventional
paradigm in the past was that
cancer, or these cells
that have damaged DNA,
and it's damaged in such a
way that it incensed them
to multiply continuously.
So, normally, a cell
will be one cell,
and it will multiply
into two, and then
it will multiply into four.
So this is exponential growth.
But at some point, it
will shut off growth
and it will just stay.
So your liver grows to a certain
size and it stays that size.
Your brain, your heart,
all these other cells,
they grow to a certain size
and they stay that size.
So they have a
built-in regulator
that keeps those
cells from growing
more than a particular number.
In cancer cells, that
regulator is turned off,
and so they just keep
multiplying and multiplying
and multiplying and multiplying.
And because of their
physiologic make-up,
that they absorb sugar, and
they absorb sugar better
than your human cells, then they
suck up everything around them,
and people with cancer
die of starvation.
>> So Dr. V., what is cancer?
>> Cancer are basically
rogue cells that are mutant,
have DNA damage, and they're
escaped the guard, so to speak,
of the immune system.
And cancer cells are very smart.
Once they start developing,
they stop communicating
with other cells around them.
They create their own blood
flow so they can have lots
of nutrition given to them.
They even secrete
specific enzymes
to put the immune
system to sleep.
And they create a
protein called survivin.
It's kind of a funny name.
It's "survivin" not "surviving."
But survivin, which
prevents the cancer cell
from going through the natural
cycle of death or apoptosis,
so cancer cells resist dying.
They continue to multiply.
They don't die like
normal cells, which
is why traditional
treatments are
so counterproductive and
counterintuitive because cancer
cells resist dying.
And so they're trying to use
stronger poisons and more
radiation to force
that cell to die,
but they're not getting it.
>> Let me go back
to a basic question.
What is cancer?
>> Cancer is a condition where
some cells in the body are no
longer responding to the signals
that tell them when to quit.
In other words, most cells that
have a purpose for developing,
they develop to a certain
point and then they stop.
Cancer cells keep reproducing.
So they keep growing, and they
can spread to other places.
That's what's
called a metastasis.
So cancer cells have escaped the
normal controls for regulation
and how big a bunch of
cells is supposed to become.
>> The present orthodox view
is that cancer is a lump
or a bump.
That's the cancer.
That's the assumption.
Now, if that is true,
then to get rid of cancer,
all you would have to do is get
rid of the lump or the bump.
And, hence, we have surgery.
Well, that gets rid of
the lump or the bump.
Or we have chemotherapy, which
poisons the lump or the bump,
if we got rid of it.
Or we have radiation, which
burns it and got rid of it.
And you undergo these
three therapies.
And to get rid of the lump or
the bump, the doctor will say,
it looks like we got it all.
That famous line, we got it all.
But did they?
No.
Statistics show that in
most cases, it comes back.
They didn't get it all
because that was never
the cancer in the first place.
If you're a farmer and you see
all these little black spots
on your corn leaves,
and you think,
well, those are black spots.
That's the disease.
And you get the scissors out
and you cut all the black spots
away.
Well, you think, we
got it all, right?
No, you didn't because
that wasn't the disease.
What caused those black
spots is still present.
>> That's a great analogy
by G. Edward Griffin.
What caused the black spots?
So let's go back to cancer.
We need to figure out what
caused the lump or the bump.
We need to look at the
cause and not the symptom.
I wanted to get the opinion
of Dr. Rashid Buttar,
so I caught a plane
to North Carolina.
>> Cancer is not the problem.
Cancer is a symptom.
If you want to look at
it from a car analogy--
I don't know why everybody
seems to understand analogies
when we use cars--
cancer is a flashing
light on the dashboard.
And the reason chemo and
radiation and surgery
don't work is because
everybody is taking a hammer,
they're taking a hammer
to that flashing light
on the dashboard--
>> The check engine light.
The check engine light.
>> Exactly.
The flashing that's
saying that there's
a problem with the engine.
So everybody is
saying, I can fix that,
and they're hitting
that light, but that's
not going to fix the engine.
So my question to
patients is very simple.
If you took your
car to a mechanic,
and there was a flashing check
engine light on your car,
and the mechanic says,
yeah, I can fix that,
and takes the fuse out and says,
OK, now your problem is solved.
Or, I've got a
knocking in my engine.
OK, well, here,
turn up the radio.
Do you hear it now?
Well, I can kind
of still hear it.
Here, put some earmuffs on.
Yeah.
Now, I don't hear it.
OK, perfect.
You haven't done
anything to the engine.
>> I would fire the mechanic.
>> Exactly!
And that's the question
that, when you ask a person,
the logical answer is,
yeah, I'd fire the mechanic.
So then why aren't they
firing the doctors,
because that's exactly
what the doctors are doing?
They've got a problem.
They're covering it up with a
drug to cover up the symptoms
so a person doesn't feel
or experience the negative,
which is the body's own
mechanism of information
saying, hey, caution,
there's a problem.
And that's what cancer is.
>> Cancer is really the symptom.
>> Cancer is the
symptom of a sick body.
And you cannot cut a tumor off
or shrink a tumor or poison
a tumor and expect to
stay well and stay healthy
because you're not
addressing the real problem,
you're only addressing
the symptom.
And it's like cutting off your
nose to get rid of a cold.
It doesn't solve the
real, underlying problem.
>> Every symptom is the
body doing the right thing
at the right time.
If, right now, if I
put handcuffs on you
and locked you up and
came at you with a knife,
what happens to
your blood pressure?
Your blood pressure rises.
What happens to your
cortisol during stress?
Your cortisol rises.
What happens to your gut?
You start taking away all the
nutrition out of your body.
You can't even absorb
nutrition when you're
in a fight or flight syndrome.
So all of a sudden,
you're nutritionally
deficient, your
immune system is shot,
your blood pressure is rising.
Now your cholesterol
is being affected.
Is that a symptom?
Is that your genetics,
or is your body adapting?
Is that symptom in
your body adapting
to the stress it's put under?
It's adapting.
>> So cancer is a symptom of
something that's gone wrong
in the body.
But it's just a symptom.
The tumor is not the problem.
But so often now,
in modern oncology,
we smash the check
engine light of our body.
We cut out the tumor.
But there's an underlying
problem that's still going on.
But did you catch
what Dr. Majors said?
Every symptom is the body
doing the right thing
at the right time.
I was asked to speak at
the Cancer Control Society
Convention in Los
Angeles in August.
And while I was there,
I was fortunate enough
to speak with Dr. Brad Weeks.
He said something almost
identical to Dr. Majors.
>> Samuel Hahnemann, who was a
medical doctor who actually was
so frustrated with the
standard of care in his day,
he gave up his medical practice.
He gave up his MD,
and he went into
and formed a whole field of
medicine called homeopathy,
which is a whole nother topic.
But it's a very fruitful
study about healing.
And one of his favorite
quotes is that "the symptom
is a healing gesture."
The body is no dummy.
If the body's doing something,
it's probably a wise thing.
It's maybe not a
permanent solution,
it's maybe a stopgap solution.
But like a fever.
Fortunately, if the child
has a fever, guess what?
The human being can live at
a high temperature or a low
temperature, but
certain bacteria can't.
So the fever is a naturally
tremendously beneficial symptom
which can help the
child get healthy,
which is why after a fever, our
language says, I feel better.
Nobody says, I had a
fever and I'm feeling
like I felt before the fever.
It's been a cleansing
and detoxifying process.
Now, of course, too much of a
symptom can be, if not lethal,
certainly terrible.
I mean, Helen Keller
is a classic example
of too much of a fever.
So I'm not advocating
for excessive symptoms.
But I'm saying, if
the symptom happens,
the body should pay attention.
And, often, it's
the, if you will,
it's the auto pilot
telling us dummies,
hey, you're not doing
something right.
So cancer can be seen as a
symptom, as a healing gesture.
What I've lectured
on in the past
is that, where I grew up
in northern New Hampshire,
there was a town dump.
And so we all knew we
could take our trash over
to farmer Jones's back 40.
And we put stuff there.
And we used to go there as kids
and watch the bears and stuff.
But, the fact of the matter
is, if God reached down
with a big excavator and
took all the trash out
of farmer Jones's backyard and
we couldn't use it anymore,
we'd go to farmer Smith and
we'd pay him 40 bucks a year
to dump our trash there.
And because we could take
our trash to these back 40s,
we could keep our front
yards pretty clean.
So if you have a
cancer in a breast,
I'm saying that's metaphorical,
it's analogous to a cancer
being like a dump.
The body's saying
something's wrong here,
so I'm going to put everything
in Farmer Jones's back 40,
in the left breast,
and there's a cancer.
It's never the problem.
It's always a symptom of
other diseases or imbalances.
And, so, if you just lop
off the breast and say,
Mrs. Jones, you're
cancer-free, you're
ignoring the fact that unless
you change your behavior,
the cancer will
manifest somewhere else.
>> So unless you
change your behavior,
the cancer is going to come back
and manifest somewhere else.
That's exactly the opposite
of what we typically hear.
We hear, OK, you
have this disease,
here's this drug and
this drug and this drug.
But let me ask you a question.
When you take all
these drugs together,
have they ever been
tested for safety?
Let's listen to KC Craichy.
>> Jeffrey Bland gave
a talk this weekend,
and he's the founder
of Functional Medicine.
I mean, the guy's brilliant.
And he was saying that he has
always been blasted about,
oh, your stuff's
not double-blind,
placebo-controlled, and I only
practice scientific medicine.
And he finally says
he got to the point
where he says to the doctor,
let me ask you this question,
and you'll be honest
with me, right?
We'll agree that
I'm a little bit
on the outskirts of
what you're talking
about as scientific medicine.
But let me ask this question.
Have you ever
prescribed a patient
a drug who was already
on four other drugs?
Oh, of course.
And could you
point me to a study
that showed a patient
population on those five drugs?
Well, I had the study
for this drug and this--
No, that's not what I said.
Could you show me a
patient population
that has been studied
on those five drugs?
And the answer
is, of course not.
In fact, I was told by a
doctor, Dr. Scott Hannen,
about a study he's sending
me here recently that there's
a study out that
says that if you are
on five or more
medications, it is
impossible to predict the
clinical response of the five
drugs.
>> Wow.
>> OK, so that's why
it's all a guessing game.
They would give a drug for
this and a drug for that,
and then you end up giving
drugs for the symptoms caused
by drugs.
It's really, it's
an awful spiral.
Now, there is a place
for some drugs some time,
but I generally think
of them as a band-aid
to get people over a hump
before they can figure out
how to get their body responding
like it's supposed to.
>> Well, I think the
difficulty in the problem with
the conventional care that's
been given is that disease
management model, and the rest
of the world has a concept
of a disease resolution model.
So we can manage the disease.
I can always put
a band-aid on it.
And sometimes we need band-aids.
But by the time we
see patients, they're
a lot more like mummies.
They were wrapped up
with so many band-aids.
So we treat the
symptoms very well.
And in Western medicine,
acute care is phenomenal.
America is number one at trauma.
So if you get a gunshot wound,
a car accident, or you break
a bone, I'm going to go
to the local hospital
here, absolutely.
But outside that emergency
room, which most people live,
we have this concept of,
again, disease management.
So we treat the symptoms.
We treat the symptoms,
and never going at what's
the underlying cause of
the symptom, the imbalance,
or the dysfunction.
I gave a lecture the
other day at a conference,
and then I got a little
feedback that was a slightly
negative from the audience.
It was a bunch of physicians.
And I said, you know,
physicians like us physicians,
we're very much like James Bond.
And they go why?
It's not that
we're good looking,
it's that we all have
a license to kill.
We have a prescription that
we can give someone they
either can save their life
and also can kill them.
And we forget that
sometimes, that we
give things that have
actually detrimental effect.
>> They seem to think that
taking a drug and covering up
a symptom is a better option.
You've got a pile of
horse manure here.
What are you going to do?
Well, the logical thing would be
take the manure out and get rid
of it, but instead
they put a carpet down.
Well, it's still kind of
lumpy, then they flatten it.
Well, I can still smell it, and
they spray some air freshener
here.
This is like one drug over
another drug over another drug
trying to deal with the symptom
side effects of the first drug
and second drug or third drug.
And, finally, the person
just deteriorates.
No matter what you say, when you
put a carpet over that manure,
you spray air freshener,
you put perfume out there,
you burn a match,
whatever the case
is, the problem is still there.
You've only covered it up.
>> One of KC Craichy's
quotes really struck me.
He said it's impossible to
predict the outcome of taking
five drugs together.
Wow.
How many people do you know that
are taking at least five drugs
and maybe more?
And Dr. Buttar's
analogy of covering up
the manure with a carpet.
That really struck home as well.
So I headed back home
to the Lone Star State
to see what Dr. Irvin
Sahni has to say
about the current medical
system and the pervasiveness
of prescription drugs.
>> The system is designed
to create chronic disease.
There's no money
in being healthy.
There's no money in being dead.
All the money is in
being chronically ill.
And so the way the renumeration
works for physicians,
even with Medicare, is that
it encourages more drugs
to be written.
So by design I feel like
the system is flawed.
And who do you think is
paying the Congress people
money for their next
election campaign?
Some small-town
doctor who's trying
to educate people on how to
lose weight or Pfizer or Merck?
And I'm not picking on
any specific company here,
but it's just simply true.
That's where the
money comes from.
And that's how these jobs are
created and billions of dollars
are paid out to
different individuals.
And that's why the
system is flawed.
That's my opinion.
That's one aspect of
it that's very easy
to sink your teeth
into, and no one
can tell me that I'm
wrong because it's true.
It's just a fact.
I mean, this isn't something
that's up for discussion.
This is just pure
and simply a fact.
>> Very telling
information from Dr. Sahni.
He says that the
system is flawed.
But what about the main
treatments for cancer today--
the chemo, the
radiation, and surgery?
Is our cancer
system also flawed?
Let's hear what several
prominent physicians
have to say about this matter.
When it comes to
cancer, typically,
conventional medicine will
treat with either chemotherapy
or radiation or surgery,
or a combination thereof.
>> Correct.
>> What is your opinion on the
efficacy of the conventional
treatments?
>> So, each situation
is different,
and so we have to approach
each situation as different.
Unfortunately, in a lot
of conventional medicine--
I was just down at MD Anderson--
people are treated more
like a feedlot situation
where, if you have
this, colon cancer,
this is the protocol
that we use.
If you've got
breast cancer, this
is the protocol that we use.
And, obviously, that has failed.
Our problem with
conventional therapy
is when cancer has moved
from one place to another.
When there is a metastasis from
the prostate into the bone,
or from the breast into the
brain, or from the colon
into the lymph nodes,
then conventional therapy
doesn't work so well.
Right?
So it does depend on what
type of cancer there is.
There are lots of
rarer types of cancers,
like the cancer that
Lance Armstrong had,
that was amenable to the
conventional approach.
And he goes on to be able
to cheat and win some races.
>> That was testicular cancer.
>> Right.
Testicular cancer.
>> To cheat and win some races.
>> And there are some
blood-borne cancers also that
respond to the
conventional therapy.
But, for the most part, the
bread-and-butter cancers--
so when we're looking
at ovarian cancer,
pancreatic cancer, prostate
cancer, breast cancer,
colon cancer, uterine cancer--
once the barn door gets
open with any of those,
then the conventional
therapeutic model doesn't work.
>> Then went into the internal
medicine residency in San
Francisco where I got my
internal medicine degree.
And, then, from there, I went
to an oncology fellowship, Ty,
which was another two years.
I kind of overtrained, actually.
I finished that up
in '73 and then went
into practice in San
Francisco as an oncologist
with a group of oncologists.
After a couple of
years in San Francisco,
I decided I wanted to
be in a smaller town,
so I moved to Reno.
I've been there ever since.
>> OK.
>> 40 years, now.
The first 20 years
of my practice
there, I was doing
everything just
cookbook style, Betty Crocker.
>> Conventional.
>> Conventional,
doing their protocols,
just like the book said.
Then I began to notice that
my long-term survivor list was
pretty short, and I began
reading the literature
that everyone was.
That after five years of
chemo, in their own literature,
they recorded only
2.1% survival rate.
So any adult undergoing
chemo with stage 4 disease,
two out of 100 of them would
be alive at five years.
Not a-- you wouldn't
hire a baseball player
with a 2% batting average.
Not a real good--
So I finally realized,
I couldn't participate
in this act for very
long, so I decided
to get my homeopathic degree.
>> All of the drugs that you
see, if you pick up the label,
all of the chemo drug
says "causes cancer."
Think about it.
>> Yeah.
>> We use a drug to treat
cancer that causes cancer,
a known carcinogen?
How crazy is that?
But that's what we do every
day in every institution
across America.
We use radiation.
What do X-rays cause?
Hello, cancer.
And we're using that,
supposedly, to treat it?
So a stage 4 cancer in America's
survival rate is about 2%.
You know, that is horrific.
It can't get any worse than 2%.
So 2% success rate
for stage 4 cancers
is beyond comprehension.
The patients would live
much longer and healthier
if they did nothing, if
they didn't take the drugs,
because the drugs are
hastening their death.
>> Wow.
And I've read studies.
>> Don't get me started.
>> I think you're
already started.
I think you're already
going, which I am enjoying
because it's good information.
I've read studies of people
saying the same thing, doctors
and scientists
saying that you would
live longer by doing nothing
than by doing the treatment.
And, I can't remember
the medical doctor
that I was just talking
to recently said
that in all his years of
treating cancer patients,
that he's never actually seen
one that died from the cancer,
that they always died
from the treatment.
>> Yeah.
You know, primary tumors
almost never kill anyone,
unless they're in the brain.
A primary tumor
can kill you there.
But, if you give it long
enough, the metastases
can eventually get you.
But almost no one in America
today dies of their cancer.
They die of the side
effects of the chemo.
I shouldn't call
those side effects.
The direct effects of chemo.
We call them side effects
because they're unwanted,
but they are direct
effects of the chemo agent.
>> It doesn't make sense
to poison and to radiate
and to cut a body that's
already sick in the first place.
People don't get sick
because they have cancer.
They're already sick and
then they develop cancer.
So if you start trying to poison
and put these horrific things
into a person's
body that's already
weak and sick in
the first place,
you're not going to
get very good results.
And statistics show us that.
The study done in
Australia, at the University
of Sydney, Australia, where they
looked at 22 different cancers
over a five-year period,
and they found only a 2.2%,
on average, success
rate with chemotherapy.
You know, those
aren't very good odds.
If you cut out an
organ, if it's diseased,
what are you
telling that patient
to prevent that from
happening again?
And so the traditional
methods of treatment
is just not working.
>> So I headed to Memphis to
talk to my friend, Chris Wark,
a cancer survivor.
>> What's amazing is so
many cancer patients,
when they're diagnosed
and they're told they need
chemotherapy, almost all of
them don't want to do it.
Instinctively, they
don't want to do it.
They don't want to be poisoned.
They don't want to suffer.
They don't want to get sicker.
But everyone tells
them they have to,
and so they reluctantly
agree to do it.
And for most of them,
it doesn't end well.
They get a treatment, or
a series of treatments,
and there will be a very
short window of time
where the doctors
can't find any tumors.
And so they'll say, you're in
remission, you're cancer-free.
Yay!
Right?
We see celebrity
headlines all the time--
"I'm cancer-free now," after
having a tumor cut off.
Right?
But the truth is,
you're not cancer-free.
You still have cancer
cells in your body.
You still have a sick body.
You still have a
depleted immune system.
And it's just a matter of
time before new tumors form.
And it's really sad to
watch cancer patients go
through this process of,
oh, I'm in remission,
and they think
everything's great,
and they can go back
to a normal life.
And a few months later,
they have another scan,
and there's a new
spot or several.
Or it's migrated from what
started as a tiny lump
in one breast, is
now in their brain,
in their liver, spots on
their bones, in their lungs.
And we know that's
from the chemotherapy.
It's causing it to spread,
it's making it more aggressive,
and it's causing secondary
cancers in the body.
Radiation as well.
>> Yeah, that was
my next question is,
do you think that it's
related to the chemotherapy?
>> Yeah.
We know it is because
of the industry studies.
The studies that have come
from the cancer industry
tell us that chemotherapy
is carcinogenic,
it causes secondary cancers.
There are many
chemotherapy drugs
that are known carcinogens
and listed by the US National
Toxicology Board as carcinogens.
They cause cancer.
>> It's estimated by 2020 that
50% of all cancer in America
will be medical X-ray-induced
or drug-induced.
So we will be responsible, in
a very few short years, for 50%
of all cancer in America.
>> Wow.
>> That's staggering.
>> Yes.
>> That's staggering, and the
medical society is doing this
to us.
We are doing it to the people.
>> That's-- that's mind
blowing, that by 2020 we will be
responsible for
50% of the cancers.
>> It's staggering.
>> Wow.
And, especially, in
light of the fact
that the recent statistics
from the WHO and the ACS
are indicating that one in
two men, one in three women
alive today will face cancer.
And they're saying
that half of that is
caused by the medical system.
>> Absolutely.
>> I'm blown away, and I
don't get blown away easily.
Wow!
50% of cancers are actually
caused by the treatments?
And, in light of
this information,
do you think that
oncologists themselves
would take these
treatments if they
were diagnosed with cancer?
>> 86% of oncologists polled,
or so, said they wouldn't give
themselves what they
give their patients.
>> They would not take
chemo or radiation?
>> Exactly.
>> Wow!
86%.
>> 86%.
>> There was a study that came
out, about 90% of physicians,
particularly in oncology, would
not prescribe the drug that
they give to their patients
to their wife or their child.
Right?
So what does that tell us?
Well, it's just my job.
So there's a disconnect between
the patient and the physician
now.
>> Dr. Charles Majors is a prime
example of a physician that was
diagnosed with cancer himself--
he had multiple myeloma that
spread to his brain--
and he did not chose the
big three treatments.
Let's listen to
what he has to say.
>> The most important thing
when I'm working with a cancer
patient, the first thing I
want them to understand is,
you've got to understand
what cancer is.
You're walking in to talk to
me or have a visit with me,
you have no idea what
cancer is, but you're
about to do chemo,
radiation, and/or surgery,
but you don't even know
what you're dealing with.
And, so, the first
thing I had to do
was, I had to find
out and figure out
exactly what cancer was.
Because if I wanted
to reverse this,
I didn't know what it was.
And, so, our body is made of
50, 60, 70 trillion cells.
Those cells grow and
die every single day.
They grow and die.
Every one of our cells
has a cell death.
They have a life.
They die.
They grow, they die, they grow,
they die, they grow, they die.
Right now, as
you're sitting here,
you will lose over a
million cells in a second.
And what happens a second later?
They re-grow.
There is an intelligence
inside of you
that is more incredible
than anything else.
Your body heals, it
regulates, it kills.
Those cells die, and
those cells re-grow again.
So cancer is when those
cells no longer die.
It's called apoptosis.
Those cells no
longer die, and they
begin to replicate
themselves, and they grow.
So what I needed to figure
is why would those cancer
cells show up?
Why are they there?
And why haven't they gone away?
We all get cancer every day.
Some of the research shows
between 5,000, 10,000,
20,000 cancer cells are
showing up every day.
We have an immune system
that takes control of it.
>> The cancer is not some
alien thing that was dumped
in your body from a
space ship or something.
It's you.
And if your body has
kind of gone a bit wrong,
and if you fix things, your
body will restore its health.
It's not a runaway train
that can't be stopped.
I mean, yes, it's a runaway,
but you can put the breaks on
and then reverse it.
And, there, you see
that a lot, of course.
The number of
natural cures not are
so vast, you'd have to
be blind or dumb not
to see what's going
on and not to realize
that orthodox medicine isn't
hitting the bar at all.
>> I couldn't stay
on the same path, Ty.
It wasn't working.
I found I was just using
more and more drugs
to treat the symptoms
from the other drugs.
And, more importantly, people
weren't getting better.
And it just wasn't
working for me.
And either I was going
to give up medicine,
or I had to find a
different model to use.
And, you know, looking at
things from a biochemical model
and a natural model, to try
and supply the body with what
it needs so it can
take care of itself,
is really a better way to go.
>> How it makes me
feel is very upset.
And the reason why
I'm angry is because I
feel that at least
it's negligence that's
what's happening in the
conventional medical care,
particularly with oncological
patients and cancer treatments.
And, if you go
further, it almost
could be thought of as criminal
because we are letting people
die unnecessarily, we're giving
people a lower quality of lives
and lower outcomes, but we're
pushing profits every day.
This is injustice, and I
can't be silent anymore.
Everybody has the right, right?
It's even like the Declaration
of Independence, you know.
You have the right for
these things, the freedoms,
to have pursuit of
happiness, and we
have to really pursue that.
And you can't pursue
happiness without health.
And what makes more people
happy is just feeling healthy.
You can't put a price to that.
So, you know, the one
with the most toys
doesn't win at the
end of the day.
Even though we've
been driven that we
need to have a lot of
these extrinsic factors,
it's the intrinsic values
that are more important.
And, so, it makes me happy
when people feel better.
>> I know this is a
lot of information.
I know it's a lot of information
that's not commonly known.
And I know it's a
lot of information
that many people may
look on it and say, oh,
that can't be true.
Well, the bottom line is,
we've proved to you tonight
that it is true.
And, so, what we're
going to do now
is we're going to show you how
to take control of your health.
We're going to give you the
information that you need,
the knowledge that you need, so
that you can empower yourself
with health.
I just want you to know,
from the bottom of my heart,
that I'm here for you,
that I care for you,
and I want you to be healthy.
So we've taken the
first step tonight.
Let's continue on
this journey tomorrow.
I look forward to
seeing you then.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In 2012, I was diagnosed
with breast cancer.
Actually, the hardest
part for me at that point
was telling the family.
That was the most
emotional part.
Because having cancer in
the family for so long,
it was almost like I
expected it, to get cancer.
I don't know if that
makes any sense.
So when I actually did,
it didn't surprise me
all that much.
But the fact that I
had to tell the family,
it was just, that was my
most heart-wrenching part
of the whole thing, actually.
My daughter had
always had a fear
of losing me because I had
lost my mother so young.
So from a very
little child on up,
she had always been afraid
of losing her mother.
And so here I'm going to
have to give her the news
that that might very well be.
It was hard to
tell the boys too,
but it was especially
hard to tell her
because she was so fearful
of that all of her life.
Well, breast cancer is
the number one killer
of women of cancer.
And I had found a
lump in my breast,
and I went to the doctor,
and I had a mammogram done.
Then they said it
didn't look good.
They wanted to do a biopsy.
They did a biopsy, and
they said, yes, it's
invasive carcinoma
breast cancer.
It's the invasive kind.
And so then we did a lumpectomy.
And when they did a
lumpectomy, then they
did sentinel node biopsy.
And three out of three
lymph nodes that were tested
were positive for invasive
cancer, and one of them
had actually gone
outside the lymph node.
So it used to be
that it would be
stage 4 once it's
in the lymph nodes,
but they've changed
their staging.
So mine-- actually, from the
information they had that I had
three positive lymph nodes--
it was stage 3B.
And, so, usually,
that's a very grave--
I knew how serious that was.
Because, usually,
less than five years,
depending on how fast it
went, whether to the brain
or to the lung or to the liver,
would be the deciding factor
of how fast you died.
So this is what
happened for my cancer,
and I chose my treatment.
Like I said, I had
the ovaries removed,
which was feeding the cancer,
which was causing the cancer,
so I remove the hormones.
So this was very grave, and
I knew how serious it was.
And so it was very hard
for me, even though I
had decided to do a
natural treatment,
it was not easy to go
against my physicians.
It was very hard.
In April I had the
breast surgery.
I only did
lumpectomies, and they
wanted me to sign over the
fact that possibly they
would do lymph node dissection
if they found cancer
in the lymph nodes.
But I would not agree to that.
I went down to Uchee Pines,
which is a lifestyle center.
But I had actually
just gotten the news
that it was spread to
my lymph nodes, which
was kind of a heavy hit for me.
Because, usually as a nurse
in the medical profession,
you know if somebody has a
lymph node involvement, that's
pretty much, you're
going to have cancer
all over the body pretty much.
So it was really
emotional to deal with.
But it took some readjusting
because I didn't expect it.
I thought it was just going to
be limited to the lumpectomies
and that it wouldn't
be in the lymph nodes.
But, anyway, when I got
down there, it was exciting.
Before every treatment
they would have prayer,
and someone always
stayed right with you.
It's such a contrast to
our hospitals, you know?
When I got back from
the lifestyle center,
I had promised my doctor I'd go
see the oncologist-radiologist
and so I did that.
I decided against doing
the chemo and radiation,
but they did want me
to get a PET scan.
And, so, I had a
PET scan, which I
was very reluctant to do that
because of the radioactive
iodine, I mean, glucose.
And, so, I had it
done, and I was so
thrilled about when I got
the results that they did not
see any cancer in any organs.
So I was really
thrilled about that
that things that I
had done were working.
I didn't lose my hair.
I wasn't sick and throwing
up and retching and going
through night sweats
and different things.
I looked healthy, and I felt
healthy, and I still do.
I'm doing health seminars.
So there is a better way
to treat cancer than what
we're offering people today.
So when I got the
results from my PET scan,
I got all the children
on a conference
call-- we got Tim and David
and Stacy on a conference--
and they thought I
was going to give them
some bad news because I told
them I was going to give them
my news about the PET scan.
And when I told them, you
know, it was almost like,
there was silence
on the other end.
I thought, what's going on?
I found out later, they
were actually crying for joy
because I had given them
that reassurance that the PET
scan was good.
They didn't see any
disease going on.
And I felt good.
I've been walking
two miles a day.
I'm visiting in San Diego and
actually doing health seminars.
It's been almost three
years that I was diagnosed,
and so I'm loving it.
So I really have
enjoyed the journey.
It's been a growing process.
Having cancer and, you know,
you hear people saying,
oh, it did wonders for me.
You know, you think of your
love life, everything that's
happening, you appreciate things
that are happening more, even
just the simple things.
I got to see my
grandson baptized,
and I was healthy there for him.
Just little things
in life mean a lot,
that you can enjoy
them with your family.
So there's the better way.
And I hope soon we'll find
it'll be available to everybody
to find these alternative
treatments that actually
work for them.
There's many of them that do.
There's many options that we
have the scientific proof of.
When I went in to the
doctors and talked to them,
and they wanted me
to do something else,
it was very hard to go against
what they wanted me to do.
But my gut feeling was that
I needed to go my own route
and do natural treatments
because I felt like immunology
and increasing my immune system
was the way to treat my cancer.
And if that's what
you've decided,
then that's what you need to do.
The hardest thing is to
go against your doctor
and your family because usually
the families are saying,
you've got to do
this or you're going
to die because that's what,
sometimes, the doctors will
say.
Well, if you don't do chemo,
you might be dead in six months.
I urge you to go
with what you feel
is the right treatment for you.
And if I can make a
difference in somebody's life
and help them to be
healthier and enjoy
their life with their
family, it is a mission, yes.
I didn't think of it that
way, that so many people
would be watching this.
And my husband said,
maybe your chest
will become your testimony,
and it has become my testimony.
My testimony is,
there is a better way,
and you can enjoy life.
Just because you've been
given the diagnosis of cancer,
don't lose hope.
You have hope.
God gives us a
hope and a future.
It's been an amazing journey.
To know now that this
testimony will go out
through the world and other
people will know there is hope.
It's not just hopeless.
There's hope and a
future with cancer.
[MUSIC PLAYING]